# PathChecksum
A small program that recursively checksums files in a given directory. Can work with any algorithm provided by Java. Compiled in a format used by the GNU Coreutils checksum digests for checking.

A progress bar is shown for every file, so big files don't look as if the program hung.

Use `-h` or `--help` to see basic usage and `-V` or `--version` to check the version.

## Algorithm List
List was generated by my computer, but the major entries should be in whatever JRE you have too.
 - MD2
 - MD5
 - SHA
 - SHA-224
 - SHA-256
 - SHA3-256
 - SHA3-384
 - SHA3-512
 - SHA-384
 - SHA-512
 - SHA-512/224
 - SHA-512/256

## Examples
Calculating checksums for all files within the `Documents` directory and subdirectories and outputting the list to the `Checksums` folder with verbose console printing and using the SHA-1 algorithm:
`java -jar path_checksum.jar -p ~/Documents -a sha1 -e ~/Checksums -v`

Checking the saved list against the current files:
`java -jar path_checksum.jar -p ~/Checksums/Documents.sha1 -a sha1`

Can also work on big files:
`java -jar path_checksum.jar -p ~/Downloads/archive.7z -a sha-512 -v -e ~/Downloads/archive.7z.sum`

## Known Bugs
Report any found bugs to this repo.
 - ~`ProgressBar`/`ProgressBarBuilder` has trouble properly displaying sizes larger than 2047 MB (just shy of 2 GB), so it just displays either that or 1 GB. Appears to be an issue with using the `ProgressBar.wrap(InputStream, ProgressBarBuilder)` factory, may have to take it with them.~ (Fixed by updating version to 0.9.5)

## Planned Features
 - Option to use purely ASCII progress bars, in case the user's terminal doesn't support ANSI.
 - Option to disable progress bars altogether, where undesired or don't work properly.

## Libraries Used
 - ~Apache Commons CLI - https://github.com/apache/commons-cli~ (No longer used as of v2.0.0r)
 - picocli - https://github.com/remkop/picocli (Replaced Apache Commons CLI as of v2.0.0r)
 - progressbar - https://github.com/ctongfei/progressbar
 - UFFRUtil - (not yet published, but used methods should be self-explanatory) (included as of v2.0.0r)
